- [Instructor] So we have our operators scaffolding
but we cannot do anything with it yet.
Let's change that with an API and a kind.
So when we initialized our project
the last console message was to create an API.
It's time to do that now.
So we're going to be in our terminal and before we hit enter
I want to discuss some of the things that we're going to do.
So you can go ahead and type what I'm going to type
but don't hit enter yet, so we can talk about it.
So I'm going to go to
kubebuilder create api --group cninf --version v1alpha1
- -kind Objstore, OBJ store.
Okay, so let's talk about this.
So what we're doing here is we're telling kubebuilder
to create an API and all the scaffolding for it.
We're going to give it a group called cninf
as all the APIs that we build
are going to be part of the Cloud Native infrastructure
and that's what that abbreviation stands for.
Now, we are specifying a version of v1alpha1
as we are in active development.
Now it's important to note
that those version tags are very specifically defined.
You can't just pick any version that you want.
You have a finite set to pick from
and v1alpha1 is generally the earliest version
that you would pick.
Now, usually you're going to modify that version as you go
and you append it to your API definitions
and you'll see how the folder structure would match that.
But again, we're going to start at the beginning
and you can build your way towards the end
if you want to continue with this controller
in a real world scenario.
Now the last value is critical
and it is our kind.
In this case, Objstore for object store.
Now again, think of a kind
as that element that you use with kubectl.
So a pod is a kind, a deployment is a kind,
a config map is a kind.
We are creating a new kind called Objstore for object store.
Now, when we build our object store objects with CRs,
that's what's going to trigger our controller to do work.
So let's go ahead and hit enter and let this run.
You're going to notice it's going to prompt you.
Do you want to create a resource?
Select Y for yes.
And do you want to create a controller?
Select Y again.
Now let's let that run.
It's going to do some downloads and things.
Okay, hopefully that didn't take too long for you to run.
Now that we've got this run,
let's go ahead and jump into our IDE.
And within our IDE, we got several changes.
A few things were added to our go_mod.
That was because we brought in more dependencies
but let's take a look.
We now have in v1alpha several elements.
We've got an objstore_type
and this is our object store.
This is the kind that we created.
We also have an objstore_controller
and a test suite to go with that.
Most of our work is going to be in those two files,
objstore_types, and objstore_controller.
Now you also got in the config directory,
you now have a sample
and that sample we can use for our testing.
Under crd we got some customization files
and some patch files.
And under rbac we got a couple more rbac rules
that are going to be applied through customization.
Now that's all we got from doing that
but that's actually quite a bit.
We could now run this.
It's not going to do anything, but we can run this controller
and we can build instances of our empty object store
but let's save that for later when we actually
have some meat to go with it.
For now, this is sufficient on getting the API created.